http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2011/07/11/110711fa_fact_auletta?currentPage=all

<pretension>I was reading this excellent new yorker article </pretension> "A Women's Place" about Sheryl Sandberg. I'm not going to recount the whole thing, you should go read it yourself. One thing that jumped out at me however was this one quote:
_Someone asked, Summers recalls, whether a bailout in 1917 could have saved the country from seventy years of Communism. He posed the question to Sandberg. “What most students would have done,” he says, “is gone off to the library, skimmed some books on Russian history, and said they weren’t sure it was possible. What Sheryl did was call Richard Pipes,” who was a leading historian of the Russian Revolution and a professor at Harvard. “She engaged him for one hour and took detailed notes.” The next day, she reported back to Summers._

	Folks tend to think of knowledge as a "thing." A thing that can be acquired, transferred, lost, remembered, bought, sold, tested and even destroyed. But what if knowledge were not a thing, but a _relation_? This perspective helps me understand the social value of Sheryl Sandberg that Summers was explaining in the anecdote above. The value is not the answer the question, the value exists in Sheryl's ability to form a network of relations between the "someone" who asked the question, herself, and Richard Pipes. By treating knowledge as merely a thing, we strip away its social value. 
	It irks me when I ask a someone a question and get a dead serious "let me google that for you?" or a "why don't you look it up on wikipedia?" (Although I have certainly dished out a fair share of those myself, but only in jest). I know for myself, though I cannot speak for others, that if I am asking you a question there is a _reason_ I am asking you that question. It is not because I am being _lazy_, it is because I want establish a _relation_. A question is, oftentimes, a means for fishing for a  _conversation_ (although knowing when someone doesn't want conversation is part of that beautiful social/interactional dance we do everyday). If you share something with me, not only do I now know that something, _you know that I know_. Furthermore, we may have ended up having a wonderful conversation in which we both learned more about that something and more about ourselves.
	What if the measure of "what I know" is not a test of my personal "bag of facts," but rather the social network I have managed to assemble? In many respects, isn't this how the whole game really works? "It isn't what you know, it's _who_ you know."



of accreditation and authority. If you already know what I know (and visa versa) what then is the point of testing what I have learned (in the traditional sense)? If we have committed ourselves to ongoing conversation, interaction and relations then couldn't that mutual reciprocity satisfy take the place of standard learning measures?
	Furthermore, in the grand scheme, if I continually build myself a social network of really smart people who collectively answer each-other's questions, share their individual expertise and evolve as a loosely connected group, isn't that infinitely more effective than an isolated research, no matter how diligent? 
	
	

There are two reasons why I really like this anecdote, first, this describes my own information seeking behavior. Depending on the question, this can be an extremely efficient means to find an answer–that is, if the answer already exists somewhere in the noosphere and more importantly the person I am asking is willing to talk. 
	
	
	
	